VMDP doc set (#111284)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/oadp-vmdp-restoring-data.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/oadp-vmdp/oadp-using-vmdp.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="oadp-vmdp-restoring-data_{context}"]
= Restoring data to a virtual machine by using VMDP CLI

[role="_abstract"]

> Restore data from a backup to your virtual machine by using the {oadp-short} VM data protection (VMDP) CLI. This helps you to recover files to the original location or to a different directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Restore data from a backup to your virtual machine (VM) by using the {oadp-full} VM data protection (VMDP) command-line interface (CLI). This helps you to recover files to the original location or to a different directory.
```

251 characters

> You can restore from the most recent backup or from a specific backup by specifying its ID. You can also restore to a different virtual machine (VM) by connecting to the BSL of the new VM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can restore from the most recent backup or from a specific backup by specifying its ID. You can also restore to a different VM by connecting to the BSL of the new VM.
```

.Prerequisites

* You are connected to your VM by using SSH.
* You have installed the VMDP CLI inside your VM.
* You have created an alias called `oadp-vmdp` for the VMDP CLI binary.
* You have connected to the backup storage location that contains the backup.

> .Procedure

Reviewer: These steps, although marked as ordered, appear to be a collection of different commands to complete the same goal - to restore data. Shouldn't they be an unordered list instead?

Author: addressed this by changing the formatting and adding a parent step.

> . To restore data from the most recent backup, run the following command:

Reviewer: Does it imply, from/to the same VM? We could point that out too if so.

Author: it implies to the same VM . The user is already connected to the VM which has been mentioned in the pre-req.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oadp-vmdp restore <path_to_restore>
----
+
Replace `<path_to_restore>` with the path to restore.

. To restore a specific backup to a custom location, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oadp-vmdp restore <source_id> <restore_path>
----
+
where:

> `<source_id>`:: Specifies the ID of the backup to restore. Run `oadp-vmdp backup list` to find the backup ID.

Reviewer: This looks like a hidden command? Would the user know how to get backup ID? I'd consider turning this step into 2 steps.

Author: done.

`<restore_path>`:: Specifies the directory path where the data is restored.

> . To restore data from a different VM, use `oadp-vmdp bsl connect` to connect to the existing BSL from the new VM, and then run the `oadp-vmdp restore` command:

Reviewer: This, too, would be clearer as 2 separate steps.

Author: done.
